Figure 5: Partition degeneracy and correlation with excursion count. (A) As an example, we show the set of 100 partitions obtained by maximizing modularity for a single instance of dFC (169 events). (B) The association matrix for this set of partitions. Each element in the association matrix counts the number of times that two nodes were assigned to the same partition. The node order is the same as in Figure 4. (C) Matrix of z-score Rand indices for all pairs of the 100 partitions shown in panel (A). (D) We show the scatterplot of mean z-score Rand index for each time point plotted against the event count, both calculated at the same time point, for one representative participant. (E) Correlation coefficients for z-score Rand index and event count plotted across participants. Note that of the 80 participants, only four exhibited negative correlations.

<!-- image -->

Figure 6: Default mode network dissociates during mass-excursions. A) Mean difference in association matrices constructed during non-mass excursions and excursions. B) Node pairs that were statistically more or less likely to be observed in the same community during nonexcursions compared to excursions. The network labels are taken from Yeo et al. (2011), with labels corresponding to networks for control (CONT), default mode (DMN), dorsal attention (DAN), limbic (LIM), ventral attention (VAN), somatomotor network (SMN), and visual (VIS). C) We sum the rows of the matrix in panel B) to identify regions that that consistently change their community co-assignments with other regions. The regions that change the most are predominantly regions associated with DMN.

<!-- image -->